# Baby-Monitoring-system-BMS-
Now a days both the parents need to work in order to balance the financial demands for their and look after their babies, so more workload and stress is there in such families, especially on female counterparts. In order to solve this problem, a Non-contact-based baby monitoring system using image processing for face detection can be developed which would help the parents to monitor their babies with the help of received data via email. Image processing is used to analyze and manipulate the images with the help of a computer. Also, real-time computer vision library is used in this system. Raspberry pi 3B+ module is used which is a full-fledged credit card sized computer. This module has a faster 64-bit, 1.4 GHz quad core processor and 1GB RAM

Baby monitoring system Or Child checking framework utilizes picture handling, proposed which is utilized for legitimate security and observing the movement of infant by their bustling guardians. The framework recognizes the movement, crying and present situation of the infant. On the off chance that any unusual activity is recognized, at that point the framework communicates something specific as content and pictures of infant to the specific client through email. Raspberry Pi B+ module is utilized to process the recordings taken by pi camera, MIC is utilized for crying location and picture preparing is utilized for identification of continuous movement of infants and limit state of the bed. The framework required to initially introduce OS Raspbian, and the various bundles like OpenCV, Numpy and Virtual condition. Face discovery calculation is prepared utilizing Haar classifier for positive face pictures and negative nonface pictures. This framework will help in diminishing the odds of the infant's tumbling from the bed. Additionally, this framework can be utilized in emergency clinics while infant is resting where the worry among the medical attendants will be diminished.
